so far on rby pokemon challenges we have
taken three level five runs against the
elite four
first we beat pokemon yellow with a team
of pokemon where we showed some
incredible strategies then we took a
solo ghastly at level five and
completely crushed the red and blue
elite four and last week we took a solo
gyarados and beat pokemon yellow's elite
four even with their updated ai and move
sets
that raises a natural question is it
possible to beat the entire game start
to finish with a level 5 pokemon
that's what we're gonna test today folks
because this is an insane challenge but
i think i've figured out a way to make
it possible we're gonna take this run in
pokemon red and blue and we are going to
be setting our pokemon to have no
experienced game
and you folks can already see what
pokemon we're gonna take in this one
that's right folks we're taking a
gyarados
gyrados in pokemon red and blue has
probably the single most broken level 5
moveset that has ever existed in the
franchise
this pokemon starts with dragon rage
hydro pump
bite and leer
dragon rage does 40 damage to any
opponent regardless of our level we've
already seen how strong that is
hydro pump is able to absolutely crush
opponents because of our stab bonus
early in the game
and we're a flying type so we're gonna
resist ground type completely
this might just be doable
now the key in this run is going to be
to exploit the fact that most trainers
don't use smart ai
in fact there are only a few trainers in
the entire game that use smart ai
misty erica
giovanni lorelai lance
and all the rivals from rival 3 up to
rival 6 and finally the champion
but that's it
every other trainer has a chance to just
use bad moves and make mistakes against
us that will allow us to set up and get
through these fights
so with that being said let's get into
this folks
gyarados level five no xp
let's see if it's possible in this
version of the game
[Music]
all right so we're in professor oak's
lab it's time to pick up our gyrados
it's pokemon red and blue folks we've
replaced squirtle with gyrados using the
ultimate pokemon randomizer
we're not using any other cheats other
than that and the no xp code as noted in
the intro
so we're gonna name it i am legend and
we're gonna have our rival take
bulbasaur that way the champion will use
venusaur we can't use toxic on a
venusaur
the first fight is of one hit ko with
dragon rage going into viridian forest
more of the same one hit with dragon
rage let's move on to brock
we don't need dragon rage here folks we
got hydro pump
two hits is all it takes to take down
both of his pokemon
so with that being done
we have gotten through the first badge
with a level five pokemon
let's go crush everything on the way to
cerulean at this point
nothing can stand up to dragon rage it's
always a one-hit ko
until we get to misty
misty is the first true challenge of
this run you see because misty cannot be
one shot with dragon rage and she's
always going to hit us with tackle
because she has smart ai
and
tackle does enough damage that we can't
take two hits so even if we get through
staryu starmie will take us out so how
do we get through this one well two
things she can use an x defense to waste
a turn and tackle has a five percent
chance to miss
a five percent chance to miss may not
sound like much but that's 12 times more
likely than getting a gen one miss
so it's really just a matter of grinding
this one out
here on this attempt we get a miss from
misty staryu we take it down an x defend
on starmie two hits boom
we have gotten through two gyms
so now we can go take on rival two and
this one is a bit of a grind folks
we would expect it to be this is the
first time we fought a trainer that has
four pokemon the pidgeotto and the
bulbasaur are both two hit kos with
dragon rage
and with accuracy drops from the
pidgeotto yes it's really trolly
but we can see that we are getting to
bulbasaur sometimes
so here getting into the fight with
rival 2 properly we're gonna lead off
with a dragon rage we take a sand attack
that's okay we take down pidgeotto we're
still on full health it's a one hit on
abra we can get a one hit as soon as it
connects on rattata and now two hit kale
but he uses leaf seed
there we go
we have gotten through rival two we can
make our way up to bill's house where
really none of these trainers are too
difficult
this is the first section of the game
though where random trainers on the
overworld don't just go down in one hit
to dragon rage
some of these lasses are starting to be
able to resist with their nidorans and
we of course have to contend with the
final lass who has to oddish in this
section
but all of these pokemon can use bad
attacks and absorb isn't that strong so
we do get through and we get to bill's
house we can save him from his pokemon
experiments and get the ss ticket
but now we have to go and take on the
single hardest trainer in this run
the rocket grunt who's the innocent
bystander has a machop that only uses
karate chop
that's 100 accurate and we can't get
through this
so in these cases there are four ways
that we can overcome a challenge we can
try it again with max dbs we can level
up with rare candies
we can get more stat experience by
taking more battles or we can just try
for a gen 1 miss
well let's check this out with max tvs
at level 5 this is still impossible
let's pop a couple rare candies and see
we have two rare candies at this point
in the game
at level six let's try again
yeah it's still not really happening but
we're getting closer
okay let's try it at level seven
well with max tvs folks at level seven
gyros out speeds
meaning it's a two hit ko and it's a
guaranteed chance to get to the drowzee
now what about on zero dbs well at level
seven it's a range
if we get all the stat experience we can
actually survive on one hp so level
seven is the proper level to get through
this challenge but for me i'm an
absolute lunatic so i'm just gonna grind
this one out until i get the run right
here where i get a gen one miss and now
i'm on the drowzee and drowzee is a
two-hit ko it can use disable and
hypnosis
we get through
so now let's get our way down to the ssn
because once we beat rival 3 we can
start making our way to celadon we can
get all the tms there and this challenge
is really going to open up so
here the last with three pidgeys is
incredibly trolly
she uses stand attack and it just takes
forever to get through her the next
junior trainer isn't as big a problem
now rival 3
is a bit of a challenge
but basically it comes down to this
we need to get through pidgeotto on good
health raticate does decent damage but
it doesn't take us out
cadabra can use teleport
and that's all we need and finally we
just need leech seed
she uses sleep seed twice and we get
through
so
that is another challenge done
these took forever up to this point
though
now moving on to the first junior
trainer on the way to celadon with four
grass type pokemon
this is an absolute grind
absorb will not take us out though we
can take two absorbs from our opponents
and we just need to get the ranges to
knock them out without taking something
like sleep powder
we get through that fight but that one
was insanely lucky
now moving on to all the trainers going
through rock tunnel
they're not too bad everything has a
chance to use bad moves against us
even the junior trainer with a bulbasaur
and an oddish isn't really too bad
the self-destruct hiker could be hard
but keep in mind we do have hydro pump
meaning that we can do decent damage
here
in this one i actually used dragon rage
they're two hit ko's with dragon rage
for all of his pokemon so we really just
need a defense curl from them
there we go we get through
so with that being done we really only
have one more fight and we're gonna be
able to get through
and now the gambler on the route to
celadon we've made it to sell it on city
and here we can get some of the most
broken moves in the entire game it's not
just double team folks no we're gonna
get ice beam here
ice beam is completely broken
because it's gonna let us freeze our
opponents and that's gonna be a free way
to get through a lot of fights
so we are going to learn ice beam over
leer because leer's basically worthless
for us and let's go try out our new
tricks on erika's gym
so on erika she leads in red and blue
with victory bell
this is very different from pokemon
yellow where she leads with tangala you
see in yellow version tangela would only
use mega drain and vine whip here
but
victory bell will use moves like stun
spore and sleep powder that are not 100
accurate meaning that we can try to get
the freeze and once we get the freeze we
can start setting up on her team
so it's just a matter of grinding it out
for a while let's see how many attempts
this takes
so here basically we are going to lead
off with ice beam
it takes a couple of attempts but we do
get the freeze so now we can set up
double team without any risk of being
hit by the victory belt
now with dragon rage it's a three hit ko
and we can move on to tangala takes just
a couple hits from dragon rage to take
it down and vio plume is a three hit ko
but there we go we have gotten the third
gym done
with that being out of the way let's go
back and fight lieutenant serge like
you'd think he could be really difficult
but
freeze plus double team
completely breaks the game at this point
so that's what we're going for
on the first voltorb we are going to go
ahead and set up freeze tactics we take
a couple hits but we're still alive on
three hp let's set up double team and
then here it's gonna take one dragon
rage to take out voltorb
two dragon rages are going to take out
pikachu and another two dragon rages to
take out the raichu
there we go
that's four gym badges done and now we
can get to the rocket game corner where
look
even with ice beam and dragon rage these
aren't easy fights you're gonna be
grinding for a very long time in order
to get through this challenge but we can
see that we're slowly but surely making
our progress through the game corner
we're just about to pick up the lift key
now we're fighting the two rocket grunts
in front of giovanni
and once we get through this we're gonna
move on to giovanni and see how this one
goes
so here against giovanni we're starting
to reach the point where hydro pump
really just doesn't do enough
dragon rage is starting to be the better
play in most of these spots
so
here it's just a matter of trying to get
the freeze off and then once we get the
freeze on onyx we're gonna have a chance
so let's just see how many attempts this
ends up taking here in this section i
was having absolutely terrible luck with
the rhyhorn and the kangaskhan hitting
us even when we had all of our double
teams set up
so this one even with a double team
strat your mileage will vary folks
but
he can use moves like screech he can use
guard specs he can miss with rock throw
all of those are good results for us
that can result in us getting through
this fight
so here on this one we go for ice beam
turn one we get the freeze now we can
set up double team
and because he doesn't heal up we can
actually just use hydro pump to take him
down here we're gonna go for two dragon
rages on the rhyhorn and finally on
kangaskhan
it takes three hits to take it down but
we finally get through
so now we can go and fight rival four
and rival four's team is
much better at this point in the game
than it would be in pokemon yellow
version
because
the pidgeotto uses sand attack but then
his next pokemon is actually gyrados
which knows dragon rage and hydroponic
completely broken for this section of
the game this is one of the few spots
where i think that pokemon red and blue
is actually harder than pokemon yellow
here in this one what we're gonna do is
we are going to get the freeze on the
pidgeotto after two attempts now we can
set up double team
once we get our double team set up we're
going to go ahead and use ice beam to
try to finish this one off
basically we need to save some dragon
rages for ivysaur at the end because
ivysaur
is going to resist moves like hydro pump
so here on the gyarados
we freeze it and then we take it down
with dragon rage we're gonna use hydro
pump here on growlithe
since it is weak to water
it takes four hits though to take it
down we switch to ice beam just to speed
it up at the end to get a guaranteed hit
and we take down cadaver with a couple
of dragon rages and ivysaur goes down in
a couple dragon rages
so there we go
now we can fight all of the channelers
here and again they're not easy
but they are possible given the fact
that we have dragon rage
basically we're just trying to get the
range to either get a freeze or to get
double teams set up and then we're going
to take these ones down
there are only three trainers that we
have to get through here though so now
onto the ghost marowak it really can't
do anything to us i mean we're flying
pokemon so we take it down
and now we just have to deal with the
rocket grunts at the top of the tower
this is a point where it's important to
note that i was starting to realize that
when an opponent has a lot of
non-attacking moves sometimes it's
better to just attack them with dragon
rage instead of trying to set up ice
beam or set up double team because if
they have a 50
chance or a higher of just not damaging
us
for example by using screech or missing
with super sonic
we're probably better off just taking
that 50 percent chance when they're a
two-hit ko range
double team is really only important
when the battle is gonna last for a long
time
on the final rocket grund at the top of
the tower we've gotten the freeze on its
zubat we take it down with dragon rage
here it's a couple hits on ratata
it's going to be a couple hits on the
eradicate and finally we have the last
zubat
where we just
run out of dragon rages so we take it
down with ice beam instead
so we've saved mr fuji and we are done
with that section
so where should we go next
i decided to go down to koga
and the reason i'm going to koga is
because if we beat him
we're gonna get access to toxic
and everybody knows from the level five
elite four runs that toxic is incredibly
important to these rocks toxic gives us
another way to knock out our opponents
even when we don't have enough pp to
take them out with direct attacking
groups
so let's see how this one goes
here the
jugglers are a little bit trolly because
even when we freeze one of their pokemon
they can swap out to a different pokemon
but we get through them now it's time
for koga
koga is an absolute grind
the thing that we have going in our
advantage is that he can use moves like
smoke screen and he can use x attacks
that will give us a chance but actually
i got stuck a lot of times on muck
muck using moves like minimize
could result in us using up basically
all of our pp
and when we use up all of our pp too
early we can get taken out
so
basically we have to see if we can grind
this one out i haven't used pp ups yet
because
i'm not a hundred percent sure if it's
gonna be best to use them on dragon rage
or not at this point so
i decided to just hold off let's just
grind this out and see if we can get
through this one
so here we're finally going to get a
proper run at coca here
where
we are going to lead off with ice beam
we take a smoke screen but we do get the
free so let's just see if this is gonna
work
we're gonna set up all of our double
teams and then we're gonna go into
dragon rage but we are getting some
misses because of our accuracy drop now
here against the muck we need to take it
down as quickly as possible but we're
running out of dragon rage pp so i
decide you know what let's switch into
ice beam
let's just see if we can whittle this
one down it's already at low hp so maybe
this will be possible to just take it
down with other attacking moves we get
the freeze and we knock it out
now we're going to go for ice beam on
the second coughing we get to freeze
here
and we are now going to use dragon rage
to take it down but we don't really have
a lot of attacking pp left
i think our best shot
is to get the self-destruct miss
so with koga done now we can get back to
silpco and it's just a matter of getting
to rival 5.
so we have a big advantage at this point
though in that we are going to have
access to toxic
toxic is going to let us get through
this fight i think
so here against rival 5 the key is this
we need to get a freeze on the pidgeot
now pidgeot can use some bad moves like
whirlwind
and that can give us a chance to set up
so let's just see how it goes
so here on this one what we're gonna do
of course ice beam we get the freeze now
it's time to set up double team
we have to keep in mind in this fight
that we need to keep some dragon rages
for the venusaur at the end
so we take down the pidgeot now we're
going to use toxic
and we're going to go into just wasting
turns against the gyarados until it gets
into a range to get ko'd perfect
now against the arcanine
we are going to go ahead and spam some
dragon rage here no we're not we're
gonna go ahead and use double team here
to just waste some turns again
i don't think i can i don't think
growlithe can do that much to us
alakazam is the scariest of his pokemon
up to this point
but i think we can just stall it out so
let's just see if we get the luck he
uses recover but that's fine just don't
hit us let's use a dragon rage to
guarantee it goes down
now for venusaur i'm going to switch
back into ice beam because i want to
freeze it if we get a freeze on this
then that's a guaranteed win at that
point
there we go we have beaten rival 5.
now we can make our way towards giovanni
there's one rocket in front of giovanni
here but he uses a cubone and a marowak
that really just can't do anything to us
so
once we get our double team set up we
can just start taking these pokemon down
even with the move as weak as ice beam
here he switches into a drowzee but
we've already got all of our setup done
so here we can really just use toxic and
then go into dragon rage to take it down
finally the last marowak
toxic
and we're gonna use dragon rage that was
an easy fight it's always nice to have
an easy one after a really hard one
now on the giovanni this fight is a
little bit of a grind for sure
but there is a way through it because he
can use a move like focus energy
with his first neorino and of course he
can use guard specs which don't do
anything
so here on this one we are going to
start by using ice beam to freeze the
nidorino now we're going to set up all
of our double teams
we have to be really conscious though
that against needle queen again we're
gonna have to use dragon rage so we
can't use them all up here we're going
to use toxic on kangaskhan and take it
down
now against the rye horn i used toxic
but now i'm actually going to spam ice
beam to take this one down
against the last needle queen if we can
freeze it we basically guarantee a win
there we go
now we've run out of dragon rage okay
let's use ice beam how low can we get it
oh my god we don't have enough bb to
knock it out
okay
this is the point where we have to just
grind away all of our bb he's never
gonna heal
and we're actually gonna have to
struggle the needle queen down
i was dying when this happened in real
time
but we use struggle and there goes the
needle queen
so
now we can move on to sabrina and
sabrina's not too bad here either
because
her kadabra uses the move disable
which has a decent chance of not doing
damage to us
so we just need to get the right ranges
and we're gonna be able to get through
this one
[Music]
so it's just a matter of how many
attempts is this gonna take well
here we are going to freeze the cadabra
after a few attempts
fortunately it's using non-damaging
moves once we get the freeze we can now
set up all of our devil teams with
complete immunity to anything that does
and take it down
here against mr mime we're going to use
toxic
and yeah we can spam a dragon rage or
two here
but we really need dragon rage right
here on the venomoth
venomoth is the pokemon that can end us
if we don't have enough dragon rage pp
but we take it down
now alakazam
we poison it with toxic we're gonna use
some dragon rages we don't really mind
if she uses recover
boom there we go
that's another gym done we're through
six gyms at this point folks
now moving on to blaine blaine is just
terrible
everybody knows this but in red and blue
he uses things like super potions when
he's at full health
we can go ahead and just set up on the
first growleth without even freezing it
set up toxic and just take this one down
next on the ponyta we are going to set
up here with toxic yet again
we're not really fishing for freezes on
these ones no we're just basically going
to grind them down super potions don't
really matter as long as toxic damage
gets high enough
here on rapidash it's going to be more
toxic but now we're actually going to
use dragon rage to speed up the fight
and on his arcanine toxic
dragon rage
let's just whittle this one down
and he's in the range
come on there we go
we have taken down
flame and now we have to talk about the
gym leader where i feel like i got the
luckiest role in this entire
run
giovanni
first attempt folks
basically his rhyhorn is so bad he can
use guard specs he can use tail whip
and those are all we really need to be
able to have a chance to get through
this one
we set up all of our double teams we use
toxic
and we take it down against doug trio
doug trio can only really hit us with
slash
and yeah i can use sand attack but it's
basically just gonna spam slash here
but we have six double teams already set
up so it's really just about toxic
stalling until it goes down
on needle queen we get the freeze and we
take it out now needle king let's go for
a freeze again let's see if we can get
ice beam to connect
here come on
it's taking a few attempts but we're
gonna just
say okay there's the freeze now we can
use dragon rage
the final pokemon
is right on
and once we poison it with toxic
we're just gonna go into dragon rage to
speed this up and there we go
eight gym leaders done
now we can take on rival six
and rival six is not exactly easy
but we do have to keep in mind that his
pidgeot will give us some chances
it's going to use
agility and agility is really the key
because with agility that's a free turn
to set up
the other advantage here is that rival
six doesn't have any pokemon that can
use swift unlike in pokemon yellow
version where both his sand slash and
his magneton used swift and could
completely wreck a pokemon that's just
trying to use double team to get through
so let's see how many attempts this one
takes we're gonna have to grind this one
out for a little bit
in hindsight i definitely should have
just gotten substitute here because
substitute would have bought us an extra
turn
the reason i didn't was because i
thought maybe
ice beam could still be useful when
we're trying to get to the end against
the venusaur
but
yeah substitutes probably the play folks
so here finally we are going to get a
run where we are able to freeze the
pidgeot turn one we're gonna set up all
of our double teams at this point
and after that we're just gonna go into
dragon rage to take the first pidgeot
down
now he has a rhyhorn i decide to use
toxic and dragon rage in order to take
this one out but we have to be careful
not to use up all of our dragon rages
because that's the only way we're gonna
take down the venusaur here we get
poison off on the gyarados with toxic
and we just whittle it down
now growlithe
we are definitely going to use toxic
here and let's go ahead and just waste
some turns and hopefully it will go down
to toxic damage
here we're just letting it slowly
whittle itself down there we go now
alakazam
we are setting up toxic
it can use moves like recover and
reflect that won't do damage to us
that's all we really need
now we don't want to use up all our
dragon rages so please just go down okay
now on venusaur we're going to lead off
with ice beam we want to get the freeze
if possible there we go now is four
dragon rages enough
yes it is
we have gotten through rival six
and ladies and gentlemen we are right
here
at the elite four now i cut out a bunch
of footage of me gambling at the rocket
game corner because
it took forever to get two substitute
tms that's what we need we need two
substitutes one that we've taught one in
our bag and we need a mimic tm
with those being in our bag let's get
into lorelei's fight here
where it's a little bit tougher when
you're using a gyrados just because
there aren't as many spots to cheese her
team as it was with the ghastly but here
we are able to set up on the first
dugong and now we set up toxic and
dragon rage now she can go to sleep but
she's not guaranteed to use rest every
turn so when she wakes up we just need
to get the luck and we get through
now toxic
on the cloister and we're actually going
to spam some substitutes we just want it
to go down slowly but surely
we count to five folks on the fifth turn
we use dragon rage
now
we are going to use toxic on the slow
bro and we are setting up substitutes in
case we get hit
now we've wasted enough turns we take it
down jinx
we just need to use toxic we're stalling
it out it hits us okay but we managed to
take it down
now
we get taken out by a lapras
it was so close
okay next attempt let's try this again
we are going to set up our double teams
right here
and substitute
on the dugong and now it's just a matter
of trying to take it down without using
too much of our dragon rage pp
here we finally get through this one
after a ton of attempts
but now we can set up toxic and let's go
into stalling out
until we can set up our dragon rage on
the fifth turn
every time when you get to the fifth
turn of toxic if you just use dragon
rage you will knock these pokemon out
without the opponent using a super
potion
we're gonna do the same thing here on
slow bro just stall it out fifth turn
dragon rage done we've got better hp
this time so here we're just going to
continue to stall out on the jinx
and fifth turn let's take it down
perfect
finally
our toxic on the lapras
we just need to stall until the fifth
turn can we survive that long yes
and we are through lorelei
next to bruno
bruno's not a super huge challenge he
can't take us out but
basically we're just trying to dodge a
slam or a rock throw from his first
onix
[Music]
so it's gonna take a few attempts to get
set up here but here we have gotten
toxic off and we are starting to stall
out these pokemon we're all the way to
hitmonlee and we get taken out
okay
now let's do this properly
we are going to set up double team and
once we've got double team set up we can
now go into substitute
and it's just a matter of not taking a
hit that ko's us
so here we are able to take down the
onyx we're on to hitmonchan where we're
going to use toxic
and spam some dragon rages
in this case
bruno is the only elite four member that
doesn't use healing items so we don't
have to worry about ranges for him to
heal we take down hitmon lee
now we are going to use toxic and dragon
rage and just go ham here on the onyx
and toxic and dragon rage let's just try
to take down this machamp as quickly as
possible
here we are getting into the range where
perfect it goes down
two elite four members done
three more battles to go
and once we finish it we are going to be
champions
now at this point we do have to learn
mimic we showed that in pokemon yellow
version where mimic allows us to steal
confuse ray from the first gengar
that's because we're not gonna do enough
damage with just dragon rage alone by
adding in some confusion damage though
we can create a situation where this
becomes possible
so it's just gonna be a bunch of
grinding a bunch of attempts against
agatha but let's see how this goes
so here in this one we are setting up
some double teams we are going to mimic
confuse ray
and now we are going to go into
confuse ray on the gobat in this version
we do have to worry about haze but we
take down the golbat quickly now we can
do our proper setup on the first gengar
so double team now we're going into
dragon rage
and
confuse ray and hopefully we can just
get the ranges to take this one down
we finished setting up all of our double
teams here on the haunter
it hits itself in confusion and now
we're able to take it out
back to the first gengar because she
just keeps switching back and forth we
take it down with a dragon rage now
confuse ray here on the arbok i want to
keep as many dragon rages as possible
for the last gengar in case we need the
ranges
here we use a confused ray we have six
dragon rages so as long as we can keep
her from healing she uses a super potion
but we get through okay
we are on the lance folks
that was a grind against agatha
hopefully lance isn't too bad let's find
out
in this one we do have an advantage on
gastly because ghastly was always being
attacked with hydro pump meaning it had
to hope for a 20 chance to miss from the
first gyarados but here we can actually
have the gyarados use leer
one in three times it's going to use
leer instead of using dragon rage or
hyper beam and that's our chance to get
the setup off so we are basically just
grinding for a run where we take
multiple layers in a row and where we
can finally get through this section of
the fight we actually had a bunch of
attempts where i even got as far as
aerodactyl so cutting ahead after a
small eternity
we get this run right here where we're
able to set up some double teams on the
first gyro dose and get our substitute
up we finished setting up double team
and now it's just a matter of taking the
skyrados down we are going to use toxic
and we can actually cheese this a little
bit if we just stall one turn we can
actually go into dragon rage and he'll
be in the perfect range to faint from
toxic damage
now on the first dragon air we're gonna
do a similar thing we're going to get
the toxic setup it hits us one time
that's fine we're just gonna set up
another substitute and get it in the
range to knock it out
now let's try this one on the second
dragonair we are getting it into the
range slowly but surely with dragon rage
it's going to faint from toxic damage
here perfect
now
aerodactyl can we get through can it
cannot troll us with lucky hits this
time
here we are going to get it in the range
there we go dragonite
we are all the way to the end
we just need to survive
he hits us two times in a row
why
now we have to grind a bunch of times to
get back to that point because
that dragon knight hit us two turns in a
row which is incredibly lucky
okay let's try it again here we're just
gonna go ham here on double team to try
to get it set up
once we get all our double teams set up
we can go into toxic and dragon rage in
order to take this gyrados down
now first dragonair
let's get it down we just need to stall
it out we've taken a hit but we set up a
new substitute that's fine get into the
range and it faints from toxic damage
okay
second dragon airtime we really just
want to see agility just use agility
come on
you're already out speeding so it
doesn't matter we take it down
now aerodactyl
can we get through this one without
being a troll
we still have enough hp to set up one
more substitute in case we get a lucky
hit we take it down
now dragonite
we are in the range to set up one more
substitute there when it gets the lucky
hit on us now please just don't hit us
again it hit us again we have no
substitute but we take it down there we
go i'm stoked we are to the champion
folks
so the champion
is really not too bad
because we are going to be able to set
up on the pidgeot
so here
the strategy is this we start by setting
up a couple of double teams then a
substitute just in case it manages to
hit us i did use toxic here just to
start stalling it out as well while we
finish our
double team setup
here we finally get it into the range to
go down perfect alakazam is next
alakazam has two non-attacking moves
that it can use
let's just hope that we can get it down
into the range and not use up all our pp
due to it using recover
remember we have to keep some dragon
rages for the venusaur
so here we are getting it down perfect
it hit us one time so we do have to set
up a new substitute we use toxic on the
ride on and we get
it in the range where it goes down
perfect now gyrados our doppelganger
let's try to take this one down we are
only what 50 levels slower than this one
but we are going to take down the
gyarados perfect
arcanine it is in
it's going to get down into the range
here can we take it down
well
we take a hit on our substitute now we
cannot use substitute anymore and now
venusaur breaks our substitute with
solar beam can we get through it
no
we only needed one more hit to take down
the venusaur we were so close
this is ridiculous
okay let's grind it out some more get
back into the fight
we know this is possible folks we just
needed one more hit
if we can just get that last hit
this is going to be a victory
so here on this one we are coming up
against pidgeot again we're going to set
up our double teams
use toxic
substitute
and now we just need to stall this one
out
so here let's just see if we can get the
range we use dragon rage and knock it
out now on alakazam it's time to set up
toxic
and we're just trying to stall out we're
gonna use up some of our extra
substitute pp right here until we get
into the range and ko it now dragon
now right on we just need to get toxic
off and start using
dragon rage in order to whittle it down
get it in the range there it goes
now we take a dragon rage from gyrados
we cannot use any more substitutes
because we're only on 6 hp
but we use toxic and dragon rage to take
that one down
now toxic on arcanine i decide this is a
good spot to just stall out let's just
see if we can get it down into the range
we take it down we're all the way to
venusaur
we cannot set up another substitute
it hits us with razor relief but we
knock it out with dragon rage
ladies and gentlemen there you go
a full game run
in pokemon red and blue version with
just a single
level five gyarados
that was a grind if i've ever had one in
my life
but the fact that this is possible is so
ridiculous my mind is blown
let's go fight mewtwo we know how we
have to finish this out so we are going
to set up here on the mewtwo
and we're going to use toxic
and we are going to use substitute to
survive when it does hit us and now
dragon rage can we take this one down
yes we can
that's it folks
i'm done with pokemon red and blue
forever because
i've just beaten the game with a level 5
pokemon now to be clear
a much more consistent run would be a
level 7 because you could beat that
innocent bystander rocket grunt without
needing a gen 1 miss
but that was the only spot in the entire
game
where we needed luck like a gen 1 miss
to get through
everywhere else we could rely on the
terrible move sets of our opponents
their terrible strategies in order to
get through
so
the natural question you might be asking
is well what about pokemon yellow
version is this possible in that version
of the game
well technically yes
but practically i'm gonna say no
here's why
in pokemon yellow version
we have to contend with some serious
nerfs to this strategy
the first being that gyrados is starting
moveset in pokemon yellow version is
only tackle
there are no pokemon that know dragon
rage at level 5 in pokemon yellow
version unless you trade them to another
card and give them tms
the second issue is that there are a lot
more opponents that actually use
attacking moves against us in that
version
think about it
brock's geodude will only use tackle we
still have to contend with misty and the
innocent bystander
then we have to deal with the arrival in
the champions sand slash using moves
like swift and when we get to the final
champion he's only going to use
attacking moves
we also have to contend with the fact
that erica will only use attacking moves
on top of that all of the other major
trainers in the game have revamped teams
and revamped movesets so that they
aren't as easy to cheese
into just using bad attacks
so while this is probably possible it's
probably not practical
which brings me to my final takeaways
from this little series that we've done
of level 5 runs
which is this
i'm probably going to say something that
i think a lot of you folks wouldn't
expect but
if you're playing pokemon red and blue
i think you actually need to ban a lot
of tms
but
maybe not just the tms that you think
like double team
no
we've shown in this series that the
moves that really need to be banned in
solo runs
are ice beam
blizzard
mimic
substitute
by
toxic
double team
these moves are completely broken to the
point that they allow you to beat the
entire
game
start to finish with a single level five
pokemon
anyway that does it for me i hope you
guys enjoyed this one like and subscribe
tell me what you think do you have an
idea for a pokemon that might be able to
do it in pokemon yellow version i'd love
to hear it down below
with that being said thank you so much
for watching
i'll see you in the next video
later
[Music]
you